[If the games ever get remade like Echoes or SoulSilver]:
See more interactions between students and lords before Part 2:
In the first half of the game, you still choose a house at the beginning, but due to chapters where multiple Houses fight alongside yours, you often play with all three lords in one party (they are not green units, but blue), and can even tutor them outside of battle as the professor also teaches outside of their house. There are many maps with one to three lords; these include the optional battles and paralogues. This way, you get to see more cutscenes and supports between all three lords. You also see how they interact with all the students. This makes the split even more impactful, as you get to see the lords interact with each other more. 
Due to the first part being so similar in all routes, all of the story from the three routes is merged into a singular Part 1, so in all routes you get to see Ashe interact with Lonato, know of Edelgard and Dimitri’s childhoods, know of Claude’s plans and schemes, etc. This gives you more insight when deciding who to follow. You have a main party of students, which is your House. But you can temp-recruit not just one, but many students. In some cases, you are forced to use certain students outside of your house in maps due to other Houses temporarily being under your command in those maps. points. This ‘taste sampling’ of the other students gets you to know which ones you want to recruit for your party; plus, the exp you invested in them makes you more inclined to recruit them. There are many required cutscenes with the temporary students you choose, and more supports. 
By the end of chapter 11, this allows you to get to know ALL the students out of your House, along with seeing some of their interactions with those in your main House. This makes the ones you failed the recruit have more of an impact when you are forced to kill them. Some of the ones you did recruit still appear as enemies due to circumstances such as unable to fight against their family’s pressure, but if you talk to them during battle or defeat them (this is specific for each student), you get to recruit them back.
It is also more difficult to recruit every student. At the start, you have a limit of how many you can recruit. Through a difficult “minigame” (similar to trading minigames), you can extend this limit a few more students at a time. Extending the limit to ALL students requires options that can only be reached in New Game+. This means that the first time around, you are forced to kill some students you don’t recruit in time. 
You cannot use the teachers in the first half of the game; HOWEVER, you can still support them between you and other students during the first half by inviting them to hang out in groups outside of battle to build up support.

Silver Snow is re-allocated to the three routes, Crimson Flower is expanded:
Due to the similarity of Silver Snow to Verdant Wind, there are only three routes now; the plot in Silver Snow is re-allocated to each of the three routes. Flayn and Seteth’s dialogue is allocated to both Verdant Wind and Azure Moon. Rhea’s dialogue after rescuing her- revealing that you’re her creation- comes after you rescue her in Azure Moon. Dimitri never dies off-screen in any of the routes, but dies on-screen in Crimson Flower and Verdant Wind. All routes engage in the Battle of Gronder. Rhea only turns mad in the final chapter of Crimson Flower, where her death is required regardless of your supports with her, and survives the other two routes.
Before Ch11, Edelgard is said to temporarily leave to due having to discuss business with her father and the Adrestian Empire, which is why you cannot play using her. To make it less suspicious that she’s the Flame Emperor, Claude also has to temporarily leave due to business he has to attend to. So the only lord you command in chapter 11 is Dimitri, though once you get close to the boss, Claude re-appears to defend the holy tomb. The only possible ending of Ch11 is the cutscene when the Flame Emperor is unmasked in Blue Lions, with Dimitri cackling and attacking Edelgard. After unmasking her, Rhea gives her speech, and you must choose to either kill or protect Edelgard. These options appear in every playthrough, regardless of previous actions; you do not need to follow Edelgard in her crowning cutscene to have these options.
Later, Claude tells you in secret that he has a hidden plan to attack Edelgard before she gets to the monastery; this will reveal more about both Edelgard and Rhea, as Claude is suspicious of both. He cautions you that if the church discovers this, they may not be happy. Now, you must choose who to side with Dimitri/Rhea, or Claude. The game again has the foreboding “This decision will drastically change the story” warning, with the options “I must help Dimitri and Rhea get their revenge” or “I will pledge myself to Claude’s schemes.” If you choose the later, you will face the Adrestian Empire in a surprise attack. However, though you win and learn valuable information about Those Who Slither, Edelgard is still able to move forces behind your back to attack Garreg Mach. Your army rushes back to the place, but it’s too late and you go into a coma. After you awaken in the non-Crimson Flower routes, you first meet Edelgard after getting out of your coma. The Silver Snow cutscene plays, and she leaves. You then find Dimitri or Claude, who have followed her there but have failed to reach her in time due to bandits surrounding you two. 
Right before chapter 11, the game recommends you to save in a new slot due to an “irreversible divergence in time” (this is similar to right before you talk to Edelgard to join the original Crimson Flower route); if you choose to overwrite the same file, it warns you that this will prevent you from playing the other paths using the same party you built up. During chapter 11, you will get to choose the Lord you follow. Edelgard is also crowned Emperor AFTER you choose her, not before. If you choose a Lord that differs from the House you chose at the beginning, a different cutscene will occur, with the students reacting about how they have to follow a different House now. 
Crimson Flower has more chapters now; partway through, Those who Slither betray you due to a huge conflict in decision making, so you are forced to fight against them before advancing to Rhea. They do this as they have obtained enough power to destroy Rhea, so they believe they do not need the Adrestian Empire anymore, as Edelgard was more of a burden now who opposed many of their plans. After destroying Those Who Slither, the power they lent to aid you is gone. Additionally, Thales sends light javelins to attack you as a last resort, and your forces are weakened, so now it’s far more difficult to fight against the church. Still, by using resources you take from the defeated Agarthans, you succeed in killing the Immaculate One, who hints that you are her “grandchild” near her death; you try to learn more, but it’s too late and she succumbs to death. Every route now has 22 chapters. In Azure Moon, Dimitri’s change in character is more drawn out instead of being resolved in one event. Claude stumbles more in Verdant Wind, and turns to you for some advice, which grows his character in new directions. Over time, Byleth begins to develop more of an individual personality, as their “husk” created by Rhea grows more into an actual person through interactions with diverse personalities.
To complete the four seasons in the idiom, Silver Snow is a secret route unlockable after completing all three routes. It’s the shortest route but has you going back in time, united three parallel realities, to change events with the help of Claude (who picks up on your strangeness), that allow all three lords to come together and defeat the final evil, a being that came before Sothis, or perhaps Hegemony Nemesis who absorbs the powers of gods and Crests, becoming a demented dragon-like being.

Garreg Mach has more hidden areas and mysteries to unlock:
Getting to explore more third-person areas other than Garreg Mach in the second half would be interesting, but may be too much work to develop. Garreg Mach can also have more ‘hidden’ areas that you have to go through puzzles to unlock. These hidden areas grant rare prizes, and are even required for some sub-quests that are involved in recruiting characters. Hints about how to access them are found in books you read, which can be found either from third-person exploration or as loot during battles. This makes the monastary tasks less repetitive as the chapters go on.

More Insight into Agartha:
Before Jeralt’s death, Monica is playable with mysterious-sounding supports for a few chapters to make her betrayal more surprising, and Kronya doesn’t die in just one map after being sacrificed by Solon, but continues her presence as a lifeless husk that roams by herself, with a sliver of her personality underneath. In Crimson Flower, Kronya is recruitable again under difficult circumstances- if you do, you get to learn more about the Agarthans and their motivations to save their people, instead of just seeing them as one sided villains. There is obviously huge conflict in this due to her killing Jeralt, but the new Kronya is considered a ‘reincarnated person’ who has little memory of killing Jeralt, and is reverted back to her self before she underwent rituals that turned her into the creature she became. She is only allowed to stay by Thales, who advocates that after Solon’s ritual, she now possesses strange abilities that can be useful for defeating the Church; Thales wants to use her for more sacrificial rituals, so she is tortured as a ‘battery’. This makes her less sympathetic to Those Who Slither as time goes on. She also has supports with Edelgard, which are different than Monica’ supports with Edelgard (Monica and the new Kronya are treated as separate units and thus have different C supports with Edelgard). If you support her enough, she later gains a new self and regrets her murder of Jeralt. In a fucked up ending, you can romance her; it is more bittersweet and there is no celebration, and she only vows to redeem herself in the years to come. In Verdant Wind, Kronya re-appears as an NPC whose dialogue shows how brainwashed the Agarthans are; Claude thinks about her words, but later the player is forced to kill her in battle due to being unable to sway her beliefs. These events trigger Claude to be more sympathetic to the Agarthans.
Thales appears in all three routes, but in very different maps and circumstances, and you have to kill him before every final map. Thales reveals his disguise as Volkhard von Arundel only in Azure Moon after you defeat his human form, and this is also the only route that discusses how Those Who Slither manipulated events that affect Faergus, resulting in Edelgard’s mother betraying her new family. Killing Thales gives you a conclusion about the truth of Tragedy of Duscur, as the people of Duscur have their names cleared. Dimitri does not kill Thales for vengeance, but to protect Claude, marking a shift in his character.
The truth about how the Agarthans betrayed Sothis and created Nemesis is only revealed in Verdant Wind, while an in-depth look of their people and society from their point of view is only seen in Crimson Flower. The Agarthans claim that Sothis oppressed the Agarthans, when in reality it was mainly their own fault for how events led to the genocide of Rhea’s people. The player does not know about this genocide unless they play Verdant Wind; they think that the dragons attacked the Agarthans first, and that the Agarthans were forced to defend themselves. Also, in non-Crimson Flower routes you do not see in-depth just how much the Crests make people suffer (in all routes you just see the Crestless being discriminated against, but not to the agonizing extent shown in Crimson Flower, where you see things such as the corpses of Edelgard’s siblings). 
More lore about the Agarthans is hidden throughout the game, similar to the relics in Metroid Prime. You can find them outside of battle. This allows you to get to know more about the conflict better. In Verdant Wind, you also find the tombs of Nemesis and the others far before the final battle; this makes the Nemesis resurrection less out of the blue, and more built up as he’s central to the storyline. Byleth and Rhea’s relation is only revealed in Verdant Wind, in the chapter before Nemesis is resurrected. In Crimson Flower, you get to utilize a few of the technologies of Those Who Slither, but where they come from is unknown unless you piece together information from cutscenes, relics and supports.
Rhea’s decision to turn a blind eye to the plights of the crests vs crestless in favor of keeping the peace (to have more ways to save her mother and the remaining relics of her people, but this is not revealed unless you play Verdant Wind) is shown more frequently. Edelgard’s objections to these actions gradually rise and hint more of her true nature as time goes on. Tomas also has more character interactions with the player- he hints of a more devious nature, saying that Rhea’s actions contradict the holy writings but that he ‘cannot do anything about it and it’s best to do what the Archbishop wants’. Those Who Slither are far more powerful than they were shown.

Certain students you are not as close with can leave you for the enemy during Part 2:
Most students oppose Edelgard because they do not want war. However, if you do not choose Crimson Flower, a few of the students are still reluctant to fight against Edelgard, due to sympathizing with her. Students such as Lysithea sympathize with her as they see how dangerous crests are; unlike how every student wanted to fight against her just because you said so, there will be more inner conflict that they voice when you speak to them. Other students such as Flayn and Cyril will never defect. If you did not build up enough support with them before certain chapters in the second half (which chapter this is will be character-specific), then these few students could leave your party to join the enemy, either before or during the map. Building up support with them is also more difficult than in the base game than with other characters. There will be defectors will appear in every route.
If you don’t choose Crimson Flower, there are still constant interactions with Edelgard in the second half that show the two sides of her. Though she is not conflicted and is deadset in her plan, you can still see other characters pleading with her to change (like how Dimitri did in Azure Moon, but now it’s not just Dimitri), and she refutes them every time, so a few do get closer to her changing her mind when they bring up school memories. Dorothea even goes out of her way to sneak out and meet her in one paralogue, only to have Edelgard turn on her and requiring you to rescue Dorothea (similar to the Manuela paralogue), cementing that there is no turning her back. 

New characters and romances in Part 2:
Each route allows you to use their kingdom-specific generals (who appear as bosses in other routes) in your party. Shamir can join any route, even with no supports from the first half. She appears on a map early on in the second route as a neutral unit and if you talk to her, she joins. Hanneman and Manuela, if you built enough support for them in the first half, can join Crimson Flower if you talk to them during battle, where they are enemies. Seteth, Catherine, and Alois will never join Crimson Flower. Randolph, Fleche, Jeritza, Kronya (who defects from Those Who Slither after they betray Edelgard) and [another character from Those Who Slither, stays with Those who Slither after Thales betrays Edelgard] can only join Crimson Flower. Randolph and Fleche’s supports discuss Ladislava and Metodey, and they have supports with Caspar, too. If Caspar has not not fallen yet, his father appears in a paralogue map. Mercedes and Caspar also have supports; their C is required to unlock the death knight paralogue. Rodrigue and Gilbert only join on Azure Moon. Judith and Holst can only join on Verdant Flower. As Randolph, Holst and Rodrigue are playable, this makes their deaths less predictable, as you don’t expect a character playable for a few chapters to die just as they’re recruited. 
Sothis, like at the start of Ch12 and at the end if you romance her, pops up from time to time in the second half of all routes, giving her more character and allowing you to see how she reacts to the events going on. During Crimson Flower, you are constantly in conflict with her as she tries to turn you back, and finally you are separated from her after you kill Rhea; Edelgard thinks you are dead, but you come back to life, except without the Crest of Flames. Sothis’s consciousness is now elsewhere, so you cannot romance her on this route.
Female Byleth’s romances had included Sothis, Rhea, Mercedes, Dorothea, Edelgard. Besides Jeritza and Lindhardt, Male Byleth can now also romance: Seteth (who discusses how hard it is to move on from his dead wife but is ready to do so), Dimitri, and Claude. Gilbert and Alois are not romanceable, but Alois now has a son, and he proposes to introduce you to either his son and daughter in his S support, and in that support you can choose one of them to get to know better once the war ends. Since Rhea and Sothis supports are weird, Shamir and Catherine are also romancable by female Byleth.

New Endings:
Crimson Flower ending: Edelgard destroys the church in a bloody fashion, and begins her reforms with little opposition, guaranteeing that her changes will take place. Whether these changes will better Fodlan or not is uncertain. All that is known is that, judging from the powerfully victorious but ominous cutscenes, the people greatly fear their new rulers, and live under constant dread, unable to have the freedom to voice any rebellious beliefs.
Azure Moon ending: the Church remains. Though Rhea steps down due to the return of Sothis, it is heavily implied that Byleth is loyal to the Church’s old ways, so no reforms are made. Byleth is made a high ranking member of the Church. Dimitri takes over as King, and in a cutscene after defeating Hegemony Edelgard, discusses that Edelgard may have had a point he does not truly understand due to his lack of shared experiences with her, even though he does not support her methods. The crestless are still oppressed, but Those Who Slither is gone now. Sylvain also voices his opposition to the crests, despite having little power to change the system, and gets through to a few people to re-consider their beliefs. So though the authorities do little to change how society views Crests, it is uncertain what future the people will choose, as it is all up to them now, not their rulers. This is the only route where the Kingdom of Faerghus is not completely obliterarted, and instead all of Fodlan is united under the Kingdom and the Church.
Verdant Wind ending: Claude opens Fodlan’s borders, and also begins to open relations with the brainwashed and misinformed Agarthans. Rhea steps down to make Byleth the new Archbishop, and Byleth and Claude begin radical reforms, but through diplomacy, rather than war. The two risk being deceived and being destroyed in surprise attacks they are unprepared to defend against by those who claim to be “allies”, but it is a risk they are willing to take. It is uncertain if these reforms will be supported and passed, but Claude has hope that, now that they know the truth which the Church had hid from them, the people will work together to forge the right path forward.