Team battle where each player on a team controls a different aspect using a different genre of gameplay. Eg) One team member sees the entire map from a top-down point of view, while another sees it only from a single character's point of view. The two main genres are Gods and Mortals (also called Tycoons and Heroes, or Tycoons and Soldiers). 

A God player sees the map from top down and plays it just like an RTS. This means they have access to resources, buildings/walls, societies, environments, and armies. However, they lack the maneuverability of the single player, who can go inside buildings, hide in them, be much better at defeating enemies, have stronger stats than armies, can level up and gain armor, have more control over their moves, etc.

For now, there are 2 main genres (simulation vs action/RPG) but these can be divided into more genres by restricting access to what certain genres can do.

Gods:
Economics/Civilization Simulation (Tycoon/Grand Strategy)
Army Simulation (RTS/tactical)
Sandbox (ie. Gmod, Minecraft)
Card Games (ie. Hearthstone, MTG)
Puzzle (ie. Tetris; to add later)

Sandbox would be have direct control over many things. They'd be like a DM. Games can be challenging (one team is a one player Sandbox) or fair (both teams have equal number of sandbox players). In this sense, the sandbox player is like the AI in a single player game- they present a challenge, and adapt it in real time to the players' reactions. They create the puzzles, traps, NPC enemies, bosses, etc. that the players must overcome.
Card games follow something similar, but their affects would be over things that sandbox players cannot control (Restrict it so that sandbox players CANNOT control everything). The cards can have direct effects on battle, say summoning a monster. Player can directly attack the card game wizard to destroy their health, but the wizard is protected by monsters. They can influence the cards they draw. The puzzle/card game player may be a direct avatar they can control, or perhaps they cannot walk around (or else it'd be too similar to a Mortal role). They may be the only characters who see a 'card realm' and can see the Map, but have no physical presence on it, and can only interact on the card realm to affect the map/other characters. So it is like they are wizards existing on a different, but parallel, dimension.
The more difficult to blend in real time battle are puzzle and card game. One way to do it is to have puzzle players be able to solve environmental puzzles which change the environment and thus the tide of battle. These are not limited to environment, but anything. Puzzle players can also compete into direct puzzle battle, inhibiting their opponent, or timed puzzle battle, where the one who solves it first gets the reward (or their reward depends on their solve speed) where the reward can be say an upgrade to a town/soldier, or high score battles (battling for high scores for each round within a game, not the whole game). The puzzles would not be player designed (unlike in sandbox) but algorithm/AI designed by the environment, though 'direct battle' has puzzle players being able to change up the puzzles of their opponents. These puzzle games may also function like Mario Party games.

Mortals:
MMORPG/MOBA
    Focuses on a single character's in-depth abilities, talent trees, strats/matchups, team synergy, etc. The player can play this from top down, third person, or first person. The character levels up within each game, and does not carry over to other games (as in MOBAs). These characters lack acrobatic movement; they cannot roll, dodge, etc. just like in WoW or LoL, but they have access to many spells, talents, and armor, and unlike all other Mortals, they are the only ones able to level up to unlock new talents. They are the only Mortals that can switch to top down perspective.
FPS / Third Person shooter
    Just like Overwatch, Team Fortress, CS:GO, etc. Lack abilities / level up strategies of MOBA, but are much more flexible in how they fight and maneuveur. They are the only characters that can use guns to hit precise weakpoints in the environment / other characters. They have access to the most number of weapons in the game. Unlike MOBA players who point and click to use a weapon, their weapon usage has many more degrees of freedom, but they cannot combo. 
Fighting / Hack N Slash
    The advantage of fighters is that they can combo and aim/block at weakpoints. Fighters can aim 'top, below' on both characters, tall monsters, and even buildings, and only they have access to such specific hitboxes. Fighters can play as giant monsters, who have the disadvantage of precision reach (just like swatting a fast fly). Fighters can also have access to weapons and abilities (like in DmC, God of War) but cannot use guns. There are many tight spaces/corners on the map where the Fighting player can trap an enemy in, giving the Fighter an advantage. Fighter vs Other Genres has a different playstyle than Fighter vs Fighter. They are heavy hitters, but can be countered.
Racing / Flying
    They are the only players that can control vehicles, but they cannot control a character outside of a vehicle. Vehicles have advantage of moving fast, and are good for transport (especially for economic purposes, capture the flag, etc) but have pros/cons of being strong just like a character. They can be destroyed by a single character / obstacles, or destroy a single character, depending on stats. They can switch vehicles by menu, but cannot get out of a vehicle as a character. Alternatively, they may be able to get out of a vehicle, but this roaming character has no or very limited movement, offensive and defensive capabilities. Certain vehicles may have offensive/item collecting abilities (like in Mario Kart).
Platformer [Speedrunner] (to add later)
    Have acrobatic abilities that others lack. Can also do limited combos, but not to the precision and flexibility as Fighting. Rather than engage in mind games with other players, the Platformer player's precision inputs focus is on sequence breaking, which this game will allow ways to occur (though it's artificially designed rather than true unintended glitch exploitation). Only the Platformer has the tools to take advantages of these artificially designed 'glitches'. By sequence breaking, they have access to many abilities other don't have, such as map 'teleportation' (if they reach certain hard to reach areas on the map that can only be done by precision inputs), going in between walls, getting past very fast moving spikes using double jumps, etc. The unique tools that these characters have include rolls, double jumps, glides, backward jumps, shinespark, etc. Unlike Fighters, these characters are not heavy hitters, but use the environment to their advantage. For balance, they lack many other abilities; they cannot use many weapons, cannot heal, cannot block, cannot snipe, cannot use vehicles, etc.

The following are roles found in typical teamgames, not mixing genres with wildly different playstyles: Tank, DPS, support, healer, stealth, sniper, builder, traps, mage. Only MOBA and FPS characters have access to these roles.

<<<
The divide between god/mortal is not clear cut yet. Should they be divided by how many units are controlled? By gameplay perspective? 

One possible playstyle is that all mortals have access to mortal genres (same w/ gods), but if the draw of the game is 'MANY different genres blended into one, who will win' (like early MMA that pitted different styles against each other), one can separate them into even more specific sub-genres. For instance, one can make it so FPS cannot switch to third person view, etc.

<<<
Other genres: Rhythm game players may probably work similar to puzzle game players; how well they do in the rhythm game parallel world / env affects changes in the battlefield that help their team. Another genre that is hard to incorporate is Bullet Hell.

It is even harder, or very very messy, to incorporate turn based playstyles in a real-time game. The same goes with putting 2D into a 3D world. The turn based playstyles would have to take into account real time events, and perhaps a timer may have to be used for turns. The 2D vs 3D is interesting and each may have their own advantages of using their space to 'hide' from the other. Perhaps there is more advantage of using 2D vs 3D, such as a platform that's harder to get on in 3D may be easier for a metroidvania expert, and 3D has its own advantages such as more space to move in.

<<<
There are many different modes, and players can set custom rules for a game: 
Each team requires a certain role or else it can't start
No required roles
1 vs 1, X vs Y, free-for-all, Co-op vs AI, etc.
Gods vs Mortals
A God (given more power than usual) vs Mortals
Gods vs A Mortal (given more power than usual)
Destroy weakpoints, Capture Flag, Rout, etc.

<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
Here is an example of a game:

Team 1 has 2 Econ Sims, 1 Army Sim, 1 Platformer, 1 Racing, 1 Fighter, 2 FPS. Team 1 has an 2 Army Sims, 1 Sandbox, 1 Platformer, 1 Fighter, 2 FPS, 1 Racing.

Each Econ Sim player starts with small initial resources and a few NPC harvesters who gain more resources. They are given menu options on what to build; this is just like Civilization. Using the towns they create, they gather resources that can create defensive buildings, blacksmiths, walls (obstructions), and even modify the environment (dams, plant forests in 1 click, etc.). To further their resources, they can create towns that make money- for instance, they can make a roller coaster amusement park (if they have enough steel, etc.) to attract NPC mobs to enter, and profit off of them, then use that money to construct weapons of war. These towns house workers who need food, etc. They can build training schools to create mages, soldiers, etc. A lot of management sim. However, they cannot control armies. 

Econ players create their own towns/businesses and work together. If there are more than 2 teams, they can form temporary alliances too (this applies to all types of players, but only econ player alliances can 'share resources').

The Army Sim is more of an RTS; they only control the armies, and perhaps establish a few simple bases, but they have no access to large resources, and cannot build things such as defensive buildings, dams, blacksmiths, etc. They select groups of armies and can employ things such as hit and run tactics, set rallying points, create mini-schedules on what different groups do, etc. They rely on NPC abilities of their armies; they cannot control all of their characters at once in fine detail, and their characters are always weaker than Mortal players. They are like the swarm of NPC enemies that players must fight through in single player games. Their Heroes are like strong enemies, and by leveling up and obtaining upgrades, they can even summon Boss characters.

Mortal characters are like one man armies in single player games. Hack N Slash shows one character defeating entire hordes of enemies; this is the same. Unlike the God players, these characters can scale buildings, go inside them, use specific platforms, hide in them, etc. They can control their abilities with precision, hitting enemy weakpoints that God players can never do (unless their NPC entities hit them with luck or at a high lvl). God players only have a top down view to control their characters; Mortal players see the world through the lens of their character.

Now with a Mortal, comes with puzzles. The Sandbox 'puzzle' player manipulates the environment, albeit with limited ability. They can create moving platforms, timed spikes, etc.- but they cannot make them too tricky. The Mortal players can predict what the puzzles are, or infer them through observation or what their teammates tell them. A sandbox player can look inside a building and decide to add a maze, but due to limited resources, they cannot build it too elaborate, and using the game code's algorithms, they cannot build unsolvable puzzles (the algorithm can determine if a maze is unsolvable or not, and also base it on other teams' stats if enemies in it are undefeatable, etc). In certain games, they are invincible until one of the game objectives is met to determine the winner (only their puzzles can be solved/not, and destroyed); in others, they may have a weakpoint where players can hit to drain their resources (called 'mana'). The Sandbox player cannot increase their resources, unlike the Sim players, and cannot construct buildings / NPCs. They cannot control any character; they can only manipulate the environment, and have very limited control over the game's code via 'cheats' (made sure to be balanced).

Now, there may be a distinction b/w a Puzzle Designer (sandbox) and Puzzle Solver. The puzzle designer is as described above, whereas a solver actually solves puzzles. If the solver has a mortal avatar, that is like a 'hacker', who roams as a character, but switches into puzzle solving mode upon encountering a puzzle. The Puzzle solver is a different genre that's harder to incorporate and may not be added in the game upon its inception.

Team 1: The game starts with the two econ sims finding wood, metals, fire, rivers, etc. to use as resources to build a town. They decide to build a walled fortress protecting the team's Weakpoints. They agree to build training schools to upgrade the Army Sim player's NPCs, who decides to focus on two groups: NPCs in a dungeon that's on the walls of the 2 main towns, and an army. The Army Sim has one Hero character who casts support spells. The 4 mortals scout the map first; they are familiar with the initial territory and the potential things the sandbox player can build. One FPS decides to camp as a sniper, etc.

Team 2's Army Sims each have a Commander character, who decide to each protect a lane that goes towards their Weakpoints. An Army Sim's Commander characters are still much weaker than Mortal characters. These Commanders mainly provide buffs and crowd control to their armies. Team 2 has no large scale resources, but they have more Mortals, who are far stronger than NPCs. At the start, 1 Mortal can take on ~5 NPCs, depending on matchups. A shooter from Team 2 encounters Team 1's Fighter; the Fighter focuses on close-range combat, so they dash in range and combos the shooter. The Fighter baits the shooter and punishes them. The advantage of the Fighter is that they have many more 'detailed' options to move their body- they have many actions and moves, unlike the shooters. It is much harder to read a Fighter, due to the many options they can throw out. However, the Fighter lacks abilities such as being able to get a headshot, being able to heal, etc. The Fighter is good at close-range, but not map maneuverability. These trade-off has Fighter and Platformer at the extremes, whereas shooters are tend to be more within this spectrum.

The Fighter is attacked by a sniper from afar. But this sniper is ambushed by an Army player, who surrounds them with zombies; now, the sniper must play a survival game. The Fighter then continues their attack on the shooter, but the shooter is saved by a teammate Fighter. Now, the two Fighters duel off in a typical 3D fighting game.

Now the Sandbox player from Team 2 starts to manipulate the environment. They create timed lasers. There is also a wall that requires a key to go through. They create a puzzle where each part of the key is scattered throughout the map.

To defeat the Sandbox player, the Army Sim- who can see all throughout the map except in Fog of War (which can re-emerge and disappear during the game)- scouts potential locations, predicting where the Sandbox player will go. There are a lot of fog of war places, so the army sim in Team 1 advises the Mortals to head there to check. The army sim cannot look within buildings; only Mortals can. The Mortal players agree on how to split up to look for the key pieces.

The Platformer solves the laser puzzle after a few tries, figuring out its timing. All players can solve it, but the Platformer solves it faster. The Mortal players find the keys, and go through the keyed door. Now the Sandbox player is defeated in this sense, and it takes time to re-generate resources to build puzzles, so they are at a huge disadvantage now. During this re-gen time, they must plan what new puzzles to put up next.

The Team 2 Mortals head near the mini-dungeon created by the econ sim players. They defeat the NPCs guarding it- the econ sim put them up, and the army sim player controls them in finer details, programming and scheduling their actions and NPC tactic plans (if surrounded, what ability to use?) and also micro-controlling some of them. The Team 2 Mortals defeat these NPCs, and head into town, where they slaughter the residents, holding children hostage to persuade uncontrollable NPCs into stopping their work. The Tycoon econ sim players experience a revolt, and lose many workers.

One town from Team 1 is down, and this town is where the Weakpoint was at (each team has a honing beacon onto the other team's weakpoint). Before, the Racing player's job was to transport resources between towns as fast as possible (one town had mines, the other had the schools- this was positioned for tactical reasons); they had a trunk with Extremely Powerful resources used for upgrades, and by running through the environment very fast, they transported them 100x faster than an NPC would've. The environment's roads are fraught with sharp turns that only a racer can drift through. Along the way, they run over any NPCs in their way, but they do take some damage.

The Econ sim players tell the racer to switch job; their job is now to transport the Weakpoint into the other town. Now the Racing player has the Weakpoint and must transport it to the town still standing. As they race through, the other racing player- who was focused on running people over and shooting them with an attached gattling gun- heads towards the racer. They race on who can get there first, because the racer carries an item that can destroy the town. However, the two racers cannot destroy each other; if one tries to run into the other, they both die, and the Weakpoint falls into wilderness where neither team has more of an advantage to get during this point of the game. They race in a typical racing game, and try to knock the other off of the road. However, Team 1 is able to get to the town first, beating Team 2 and allowing the gates to close off to prevent Team 2 car from getting in (in this case, they could only close the gates when the Team 1 car was inside, as Team 1 also carries an item that could do this. This game has many possible scenarios, but predictable patterns once one is familiar with it). Now the game goes on.

Thus, this is one such game scenario that can happen. This game is mainly for chaotic fun, but over time, players may find tactics and rules on how to balance it so it can be competitive.